I don't understand the fucking issue. When the User first launchs there is no URL found. This is OK! the message should be that we need to go to settings to set one up (this is alrady there) but we need to stop all of these stupid rebuilds if the URL isn't found. Then the user goes to the settigns screen and saves a serverURL. when pressing the save but we THEN should trigger a full reload because now we know that therer is a serverURL. Then a later app launchs it should see that we have a serverURL set up and properly use that. What is the current flow?


When i launch the app it says 'no books loaded' but the settings has the serverurl save in the textbox and in the 'curren settings fields'. Why are we initalizing all of these things on the default '' before it even has a chance to know that there is a serverurl saved? that seems to be the issue. the default for the url is '' so that gets set FIRST and then gets updated, but everything loads so fast they load in with ''. Can we just make the serverurl parts load in FIRST and force everything to wait on that and then async load everything else like we've been doing? or why is it even loading '' first? Why doesn't it just load the serverurl directly without it loading '' first? 

ok, once again, why do we need to rebuild this constantly? The URL ONLY changes when the 'save settings' button is pressed. This is a value that will only be set a single time by the user so we do we need to constantly be watching it and updating it and causing rebuild cascades?
